README.md, before:

# MyReads Project

This is the starter template for the final assessment project for Udacity's React Fundamentals course. The goal of this template is to save you time by providing a static example of the CSS and HTML markup that may be used, but without any of the React code that is needed to complete the project. If you choose to start with this template, your job will be to add interactivity to the app by refactoring the static code in this template.

Of course, you are free to start this project from scratch if you wish! Just be sure to use [Create React App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app) to bootstrap the project.

## TL;DR

To get started developing right away:

* install all project dependencies with `npm install`
* start the development server with `npm start`

## What You're Getting
```bash
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── README.md - This file.
├── SEARCH_TERMS.md # The whitelisted short collection of available search terms for you to use with your app.
├── package.json # npm package manager file. It's unlikely that you'll need to modify this.
├── public
│   ├── favicon.ico # React Icon, You may change if you wish.
│   └── index.html # DO NOT MODIFY
└── src
    ├── App.css # Styles for your app. Feel free to customize this as you desire.
    ├── App.js # This is the root of your app. Contains static HTML right now.
    ├── App.test.js # Used for testing. Provided with Create React App. Testing is encouraged, but not required.
    ├── BooksAPI.js # A JavaScript API for the provided Udacity backend. Instructions for the methods are below.
    ├── icons # Helpful images for your app. Use at your discretion.
    │   ├── add.svg
    │   ├── arrow-back.svg
    │   └── arrow-drop-down.svg
    ├── index.css # Global styles. You probably won't need to change anything here.
    └── index.js # You should not need to modify this file. It is used for DOM rendering only.
```

Remember that good React design practice is to create new JS files for each component and use import/require statements to include them where they are needed.

## Backend Server

To simplify your development process, we've provided a backend server for you to develop against. The provided file [`BooksAPI.js`](src/BooksAPI.js) contains the methods you will need to perform necessary operations on the backend:

* [`getAll`](#getall)
* [`update`](#update)
* [`search`](#search)

### `getAll`

Method Signature:

```js
getAll()
```

* Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing a collection of book objects.
* This collection represents the books currently in the bookshelves in your app.

### `update`

Method Signature:

```js
update(book, shelf)
```

* book: `<Object>` containing at minimum an `id` attribute
* shelf: `<String>` contains one of ["wantToRead", "currentlyReading", "read"]  
* Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing the response data of the POST request

### `search`

Method Signature:

```js
search(query, maxResults)
```

* query: `<String>`
* maxResults: `<Integer>` Due to the nature of the backend server, search results are capped at 20, even if this is set higher.
* Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing a collection of book objects.
* These books do not know which shelf they are on. They are raw results only. You'll need to make sure that books have the correct state while on the search page.

## Important
The backend API uses a fixed set of cached search results and is limited to a particular set of search terms, which can be found in [SEARCH_TERMS.md](SEARCH_TERMS.md). That list of terms are the _only_ terms that will work with the backend, so don't be surprised if your searches for Basket Weaving or Bubble Wrap don't come back with any results.

## Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app). You can find more information on how to perform common tasks [here](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/react-scripts/template/README.md).

## Contributing

This repository is the starter code for _all_ Udacity students. Therefore, we most likely will not accept pull requests.

For details, check out [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

doc: Readme file
The README.md file contains how to run the application and the files used
in the application

README.md, after:

# MyReads Project

In this MyReads App, you can create your bookshelf that allows you to select and categorize books in below order:
- Currently reading
- Want to read
- Read

You can search books with selected queries and add the books to respective 
bookshelf you want to.

The application is developed using ReactJS framework.

## TL;DR

To get the application running clone the project at:
https://github.com/panilkumar16/myreads.git

After that in the same directory:

* install all project dependencies with `npm install`
* start the development server with `npm start`

## What You're Getting
```bash
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── README.md - This file.
├── SEARCH_TERMS.md # The whitelisted short collection of available search terms for you to use with your app.
├── package.json # npm package manager file.
├── node_modules # List of node modules for the application
├── public
│   ├── favicon.ico # React Icon.
│   └── index.html # DO NOT MODIFY
└── src
    ├── App.css # Styles for your app. Feel free to customize this as you desire.
    ├── App.js # This is the root of your app.
    ├── App.test.js # Used for testing. Provided with Create React App.
    ├── Book.js # Component to display Book with Title, Author, bookshelf selection
    ├── BooksAPI.js # A JavaScript API for the provided Udacity backend. Instructions for the methods are below.
    ├── index.css # Global styles.
    ├── index.js # It is used for DOM rendering.
    ├── ListShelves.js # Component to list the bookshelves
    ├── SearchBooks.js # Component to show search page to query books and select
    ├── icons # Helpful images for the app.
    │   ├── add.svg
    │   ├── arrow-back.svg
    │   └── arrow-drop-down.svg
```

## Backend Server

The provided file [`BooksAPI.js`](src/BooksAPI.js) contains the methods to perform necessary operations on the backend as per the given name:

* [`getAll`](#getall)
* [`update`](#update)
* [`search`](#search)

### `getAll`

Method Signature:

```js
getAll()
```

* Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing a collection of book objects.
* This collection represents the books currently in the bookshelves in your app.

### `update`

Method Signature:

```js
update(book, shelf)
```

* book: `<Object>` containing at minimum an `id` attribute
* shelf: `<String>` contains one of ["wantToRead", "currentlyReading", "read"]  
* Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing the response data of the POST request

### `search`

Method Signature:

```js
search(query, maxResults)
```

* query: `<String>`
* maxResults: `<Integer>` Due to the nature of the backend server, search results are capped at 20, even if this is set higher.
* Returns a Promise which resolves to a JSON object containing a collection of book objects.
* These books do not know which shelf they are on. They are raw results only. 

## Important
The backend API uses a fixed set of cached search results and is limited to a particular set of search terms, which can be found in [SEARCH_TERMS.md](SEARCH_TERMS.md). That list of terms are the _only_ terms that will work with the backend, so don't be surprised if your searches for Basket Weaving or Bubble Wrap don't come back with any results.

## Create React App

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app). You can find more information on how to perform common tasks [here](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/react-scripts/template/README.md).
